The Joe Rogan experience. Well, like back to where did music come from?
You know, sometimes I wonder if like the people that came up with these things.
I mean, obviously you can go to school and learn a trade or, you know, um,
become a master of your craft or engineering. But like,
sometimes I wonder if it's just like some weird, um,
other dimensional source that comes outta nowhere. That's what I think.
Ideas are. Yeah.
That's what I'm saying. Ideas.
I think all 100 percent, I I've been saying this for a long time.
I think we should think of ideas as a life form.
That's trying to propagate itself.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> because everything that you see came from an idea,
everything. Yeah. Every and Vention, every, everything,
every song that you've ever written and sang every book that's ever been,
all that stuff. Yeah. Every book ever written came from an idea and then, boom,
it's a real thing. Like imagine if ideas,
cause we don't know where they're coming from.
I feel like that when I write sometimes I'm like, what the.
Do you ever feel like that was almost like a gift? Like something's given you a.
Gift. Yes. Like a Chan, like it was a channel of sorts, like, but weird.
Cause it it's weird to, I, I, I, I, I don't want this to be misinterpreted.
Like I a hundred percent give you credit for creating it.
It's not what I'm saying. <laugh> we can cut that.
But I'm just saying that to people that, that might get weird about this,
that not don't get where I'm coming from, what I'm,
what I'm coming from is everybody that I know that creates things
has a very similar narrative that like it's coming outta nowhere.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> like, I just have to be there to get it.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know? Yeah. There's a thing where you, in the,
in a particularly, if you spend a lot of time,
I'm on it and you you're working at it and you're passionate about it. Yeah.
And you're focused on it. It's it's almost like
ause, even if it's not real. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, it's still real.
Cuz it's it's there's an accuracy to like, if you pretended that the,
there was some God that was be bestowing upon you,
these amazing ideas, if you focused on it, mm-hmm <affirmative> and if you,
you led the correct life and lived the right path,
then it would give you these gifts. If you focused on your art form. And that,
that would be like, if you, if someone told you that there was a God doing that,
you're like, oh God, that's so ridiculous. Well, what do you give a?
Who's doing it. It's the same thing. It's like a God doing it for you.
It really does work. Like if you focus on what you're trying to do,
mm-hmm <affirmative> these weird moments do come out.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> where creativity like pops up and you don't know where it
came from. Right. You have an idea will come to you. Yeah.
I think it's equal, not equal parts, but it's, you know,
when you put in the effort to like keep the muscle flex,
like the one where you're writing regularly or you're practicing regularly,
and then you also kind of let it, you know, sort of come in.
Yeah. It's, you know,
I saw Dan Harmon speak once at one of Duncan Trussel's live podcast and
he had this, he said he had, he called it the gingerbread man theory.
And he said it was almost like he was, uh, a giant,
I don't know why this was what he said, but he was a gingerbread man.
And there was a, a big hole in the top of his head.
And there was all this falling into this hole from somewhere.
And every once in a while, about 10,
10% of it would lightly dust the rim inside of the gingerbreaded jar.
And that was him and the rest was other stuff.
Jesus Christ <laugh> I thought that was.
Really interesting. I know. Right.
I love Rick and Morty <laugh> I love Rick and Morty so much. Oh my God.
But you know, think about that and then watch Rick and Mor if you do,
you'll be like, oh, I get it. I totally get it. I.
Do get it. Yeah. I do get it. Wow.
Yeah, that' hilarious. But,
but you also have to like put in an effort to inspire yourself,
inform yourself mm-hmm <affirmative> read and learn, grow, live,
and then you put all that together and you know, have.
You, have we ever talked about the war of art? Stephen Presfield book? Yeah.
For anybody that's into, it's not just, uh, like writing,
but it's kind of about writing. Mm. But it's also about like,
I think everything, there's a weird thing that we call that, you know,
we call procrastination and, and he calls it resistance in the book.
It's really interesting because you realize like what it is,
there's this weird thing that tries to keep people from being their best at
stuff. Mm-hmm, <affirmative> try to,
there's like a weird confusion and stress about it that keeps you from focusing
on what you really need to do to be a true professional.
And he sort of lays it out in the book in a way that makes you go, oh yeah.
I never thought because he figured it out. Like when he was like 40 years old.
Yeah. Figured out what he had been doing wrong,
changed his direction and then became like super successful as a writer. Yeah.
And, and is like really respected as a writer. Yeah.
And this book is one of the most interesting things because you know,
like his history that he kind of figured out how to get out of his own way.
He simplifies it. Yep. And puts in the work mm-hmm <affirmative> well, cuz.
I think a lot of it's subconscious too. It's like,
you want to succeed and you want to, you know, grow and evolve,
but then there's these obstacles of like, yeah, but I, you know what,
today I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna, you know, you know what I gotta,
I gotta call, you know,
you just kind of procrastinate mm-hmm <affirmative> in this, it's,
it's a powerful force, you know? And, and that can grow into so many things,
you know, your self-doubt then, oh, I'm not ready. I can't do that.
I'm not ready. I can't play that show or whatever, you know, I'm no, not,
that's not a good example, but, but it seems like.
There's a wrestling match in creative people's heads,
particularly like performance artists.
Like you guys are like comedians or singers or any anybody where there's a
wrestling match between like creating stuff and, and,
and being disciplined, putting in a lot of,
a lot of work mm-hmm <affirmative> or slack off and feeling like, oh my God,
I gotta get back to work again.
And then being really excited to work hard and get going again.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and some people fall too far into one way or the other.
And there's like a weird balance in there.
Like you almost like have to be scared. Yeah.
Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I think that because that's,
that's your vulnerability is a big part of,
of ex you know,
giving an honest thing to a crowd when you're playing music or, or comedy.
Yeah. You know, I think that, um,
uh, sorry. I feel like I'm talking too much, Gary <laugh> no, no, no, no, no,
no.
No, no, no. Don't worry about it. We we're all gonna talk for a long time. Yeah,
we.
Are. Yeah. We usually do.
You could just express yourself. It's okay.
Um, I, I I've played music with folks and, and I don't wanna like say,
say this in a, in a knock against, uh,
conservatory of students and things like that.
But I've found that people that are really, really smart in the,
um, musical education element and, and you know,
again, I got a lot of friends and I hope I'm not stepping on any tails,
but I it's almost like harder for them to vibe out because they're so smart
and they're, they are almost mathematical with their playing. Whereas like Gary,
like let's just rock.
Like let's hang out and like find the thing where I think sometimes
I've felt like when I've played with people that I know I'm gonna get so much
for this I'm. So I'm like kind of embarrassed to say, listen, you're you are,
you am gonna get so. You're a nice person.
You the, this way.
I'm trying to, I'm trying to find the middle ground. That's like, you know,
I'm not gonna off too many people. It's not always the case. Right. Right.
There are some brilliant, but like the vibe is where it's at.
So what I'm trying to say is yes,
you can go to school and be the smartest and know the map,
frontwards and backwards. But if you can't feel it,
when you're playing live and playing with a other people, mm.
Then there's a huge missing element. That's what I wanna say. I I'm not,
I don't wanna,
but I think that you almost have more of an obstacle when you are,
you have that kind of intelligence with music. Mm. Because it's upstairs. Gary,
do you agree.
With that? Or is this, are we fighting? <laugh>.
<Laugh> are you guys fighting? No, no. We'.
Not fighting.
Now, but I, I think, I think I understand exactly.
I understand exactly what you saying, but I, I kind of simplify it like this.
I think of it like a radio, like, like a, you know, back in the day,
when you would tune a, a radio, um,
you try and dial in whatever station and you get that clear channel.
Sometimes you'd have to move yourself. Sometimes you'd have to just like,
you know, get yourself into that place. And I think that as a musician, for me,
what I'm trying to do is gather information around me,
gather little things and not consume myself with this.
So when I'm in that place to receive that inspiration or that, that thought,
or, or that melody, whatever that is,
I'm not cloud of with doubt or this isn't what this person's doing or whatever.
I'm just, I'm here in this with everybody, but I'm like, all right,
I'm gonna dial this in. So the noise goes away a little.
Bit less. You're a good listener. You know, you know what I mean, as.
A play, I don't know if this makes sense, but that's no, it makes it like,
how can I as an artist,
how can I dial into that channel that how can I be the receiver and
get that clearest mm-hmm <affirmative> thing and,
and whatever you were talking about with the ginger, you know,
I'm saying like that little, that little piece of, yeah.
Of you at the top is like, you're holding on to, to that thing. Yeah. And,
you know, putting that all out there as a, as a force, it,
it makes sense to me, but that it't sounds stupid saying, no, it't sound stupid,
but it's like,
some people are so consumed with giving what they know. Right, right, right.
And,
and pushing everything out there that they're not taking the time to sit back
can listen. Yeah. And like, just shut the up for a minute. Yeah.
And listen to this beautiful inspiration that comes outta nowhere, you know,
just like, listen to yourself, your inner mm-hmm <affirmative> boss at being,
you know, that's um, so when you show up to a place and,
and you know, you jam, and of course you're going to,
it's gonna be somebody who just comes in and go,
just gives you everything that they know. Right. <laugh> and be like,
yo, I just crushed this thing without, without accepting the fact that like,
there's, we're a collective here. Yeah. There's other people playing. Yeah.
We're trying to all tune into the same station.
And that's when that magic happens. That's when the jam,
when you kinda let yourself go and,
and be that it's riding or jamming or playing, whatever recording, can.
I ask you, does this approach, um,
something that you've evolved or something you knew intuitively from the
jump that this is how you need to like tune out and like, look at things from,
don't get too,
like the way you're describing your ability to shut the up and look at the world
and draw inspiration from the world. Is that something that came to you in time?
Or, or is it something that you always kind of intuitively knew?
I just,
I think it goes back to like sitting around smoking weed with my
friends and just like, <laugh>, you know, not getting caught up with the,
you know, not getting caught, caught up with the,
not putting so much pressure on myself to be yeah.
What it is that you know was happening. Yeah. That's such a gift be,
be this type of an artist to be this it's like, just who listen to myself,
who am I? And listen to myself, I feel like is listening to the,
you know, this is gonna sound tuning in that channel. This is gonna sound goofy.
But that's what comes out in your music.
So.